FD2008 - Report #3

A messenger arrived today with a dispatch from the proposed site.  He rode up on a 1935 Indian Chief motorcycle 
with courier bags on the back and a letter pouch slung over his shoulder.  He reached into the pouch and handed 
me a brown manilla envelope marked "Confidential - Emergency Planning Personnel Only".  Inside was a letter 
describing the proposed site and it's particulars.  I have it here with me.  The handwriting is crude and there 
are pemmican stains on it, but I can read it just fine.  I can't divulge all the information due to the National 
Security implications, but I can relay the following passages:

"... The servicable area consists of a pentangle of several acres in area. ..."

"... The site consists of several acres of manicured lawn.  The average elevation is approximately 600 feet above 
sea level. ..."

"... Several man made structures exists on the site.  They are enclosed within a six foot high perimeter chain link 
fence. The members of the expeditionary force recommend that any antennas to be erected on the site be kept to the 
extreme east of the structures in order to minimize any interference with the public service transmission tower 
which exists on the property. ..."

"... VHF communications appears to be excellent from the vantage point of the site.  Reliable and solid contact was 
held with a station approximately forty miles to the east-northeast using an omnidirectional antenna and 25 watts of 
transmitter power. ..."

Now the bad news...
" Vehicle parking is virtually non-existent at the site.  The expeditionary force recommends that vehicle placement 
during the exercise be on the turf to the north of the property on the portion of the site adjacenty to the terminus 
of the access road."

But overall, there is a positive attitude running throughout the advanced echelon team.  They conclude by saying:

"All in all site appears to be excellent.  It would serve as an effective vantage point for a clandestine radio 
station.  In the event of government breakdown it would need to be heavily fortified.  It is very defensible due 
to its elevation above average terrain.

This concludes this site survey report.  Updates will be transmitted as necessary."

* * * * E N D   O F   D I S P A T C H * * * *

They apparently have a surplus Civil War gas balloon with them, as well as primitive glass-plate photographic 
equipment, as they enclosed aerial photos of the site.  I'll share them with the group as D-day, H-hour nears.

That ends the report for this week.  More to follow on the 6/16/08 net.
