FD2008 - Report #4

T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L   * * *   T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L

Field Day Message #4
Simulated Time 2330 UTC Thursday, June 26th, 2008

The heat wave has continued over the Eastern US.  We are currently in the 10th consecutive day where temperatures 
have exceeded 100F with high humidity levels.  Electricity consumption has reached record levels despite pleas 
from the power utilities to conserve.  Brownouts have reached the Lehigh Valley and yesterday we experienced our 
first local 3 hour blackout in a large area surrounding the Lehigh Valley Hospital as the East Texas substation 
went down and took surrounding feeders with it.  Power was restored by 6 PM, but the hospital was on emergency 
power for that period.  Procedures to open shelters for displaced persons were within 90 minutes of activation.  PPL 
estimates that 5000 homes were affected.

The forecast is for continued very hot and very humid weather through the end of the month.  Amateurs are advised to 
check their GO kits and prepare for short notice deployment.  Key ARES personnel have gathered the common equipment 
and are ready to deploy if tasked by the local EMA.  Aerial pictures of three planned communications sites are 
available from the W3OI home page.  Further details will be made available when we get the word to deploy.  Word 
will be passed on the 146.94 or 147.135 repeaters if they are operational or on the simplex frequency of 147.42 if 
the repeaters are down.   

Remember your dependents who will be without your support during deployment.  Remind them to limit opening of 
refrigerator and freezer doors during power outages.  If you're on a private well, while power is still available, 
fill a large tub with water for sanitary purposes during the outage.  Go over your family emergency plan before you 
leave.

Again, monitor the local repeaters for further information.

End of Field Day Message #4

T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L   * * *   T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L
