FD2008 - Report #5

T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L   * * *   T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L

Field Day Message #5
Simulated Time 2330 UTC Friday, June 27th, 2008

We are 5 hours into a power blackout that has affected the eastern Pennsylvania area.  Large areas of 
surrounding states have been affected as well.  Based on initial power company estimates, we can expect at least 
a day or two before most power is restored.  

The local EMA has tasked our group to establish a communications site for HF, VHF and UHF communications.  We have 
selected planning site number two as our deployment area.  It was chosen since it has line-of-sight communications 
with the local EMA headquarters as well as all planned shelter sites.   Assembly for site setup will begin at 0900 
hours local time tomorrow morning (Saturday 6/28).  Setup operations will begin around 1000 hours local.  Those 
amateurs able to lend a hand during setup are requested to arrive between 0900 and 1000 hours local.  Bring along 
whatever gear and personal supplies you will need for a 24 to 36 hour deployment including appropriate weather 
related gear.  Provide for your dependents first, then plan to join us at the site.    

We will commence formal traffic operations tomorrow at 1400 hours local (1800 UTC).  We are planning on 24 hours 
of continuous coverage.  We will secure the site when released by EMA.  To ensure you are properly outfitted, all 
dispatching to satellite shelter sites will be done from the cadre of personnel that assemble at our emergency 
communications site.

Since this is an unnamed site, all we can provide you at this time is the geographic coordinates.  They are 
40.6192 degrees north latitude and 75.5522 west longitude.  That's 40 degrees, 37 minutes, 9 seconds north 
by 75 degrees, 33 minutes, 8 seconds west.  Remember the minus sign if your plugging the longitude into a 
computer program.  Driving directions to the site will be posted to the web and the email reflector shortly.  
Tents and RV's are authorized, but there are NO hookups.  Vehicle parking is at the lower area of the site.  
Watch for signs.  Dress is casual.  Attitude is whatever you want to bring, but keep it positive.

Again, monitor the local repeaters for further information.

End of Field Day Message #5

T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L   * * *   T H I S   I S   A   D R I L L
