Repeater Failure                                          07 JUL 08

We mention "repeater failure" each week in the net preamble, but do you know what that means?  
How would you detect it?  What would you do?

Let's talk first of a single repeater failure.  The net usually runs on 146.940 with a PL of 71.9 and 
an input frequency of 146.340 which is the standard 600 kHz split on 2 meters.  If the 146.940 repeater 
fails you will no longer hear a courtesy tone when someone unkeys.  The courtesy tone is optional but 
most repeaters have one.  When one is used it's different on most area repeaters.  On .94 it's a run-on 
two-tone beep.  Once the courtesy tones sounds, the timer has been reset and you can keyup.  You do NOT 
have to wait for the repeater carrier to drop before transmitting.  The timeout timer on .94 is 3 minutes, 
so only long winded speakers will time it out.

So, it's 1930 hours and you don't hear net control opening the net.  What to do?  Well, wait about a minute 
just to make sure net control's clock isn't running a little slow.  If the NCS hasn't opened the net by 1932, 
you can check the repeater by keying and announcing your callsign followed by "Is there a net control station 
on frequency?".  If you hear the repeater courtesy tone, the repeater's fine.  If the net control station 
answers, then everything is fine, he/she is just a bit late getting started, or your clock is fast!  Be patient.  

If the repeater is fine, but no net control answers, and you're sure it's 1930 or later, then you can assume net 
control duties if you are familiar with the format.  The net manager may have a word to add here.   Check with 
Mark, AK3M, for his input.

On the other hand, if the repeater is off the air, you should tune to the 147.135/.735 repeater with a PL of 167.9 
and see if the net has moved to that frequency.  The .135 repeater has a three-toned triad as a courtesy tone and 
is distinct from the .94 repeaters.  You do have the backup repeater's frequency programmed in your rig's memory, 
don't you?  If not, do it now or as soon as you find the operating manual for your rig!  If there is net activity, 
then just participate as usual.  This would be know as a single repeater failure with net operations moved to the 
147.135 repeater.  It's easy!  

During this type of failure, net control may assign a high profile station to announce on the 146.94 output 
frequency that net operations are taking place on 147.135.  Be aware, however, that not everyone will hear the 
announcements, since they won't be coming from the repeater site, so don't count on receiving the message.  What 
do I mean by "high profile"?  That's a station with a good location that can reach most of the valley on simplex 
due to high QTH or a nice tower.    

Okay, let's look at "dual repeater failure".  If both the .94 and .135 repeaters are down, then we must assume the 
net will be using simplex procedure.  That will be on 147.420, no offset, no tone.  If you program your rig, make 
sure offset is off and tone squelch is off.  You should be able to hear net control or a designated relay station 
on frequency.  Since it will be weaker signals involved, you may have to turn your squelch down or completely off 
to hear them.  Don't give up without waiting.  You may not hear net control directly and it may be a few minutes 
before net control calls for a relay station to announce in your area, so BE PATIENT!  What's a relay station?  
How do you check in to a simplex net?  How do you handle traffic?  All good questions, so check for the next 
installment in this series for more answers.

73,
de N0KIA
