Training Session #3 - - Repeater Operations

Our typical VHF net is run over the local repeater.  Knowing how to use a repeater, while simple enough, 
is rarely taught to the new ham and must be learned by listening, and trial and error.  This lesson will 
look at suggested repeater procedures for both nets and casual usage.

First off, just as in HF work, LISTEN before you key up - - a QSO may be in progress!  If the repeater is 
quiet for fifteen seconds or so, you can assume it's clear and then announce by giving your callsign.  You 
may also add "... listening" or "... listening on 94".  The latter is preferable in a crowded RF location 
such as the Lehigh Valley where operators may be monitoring four or more repeaters and may not be quick 
enough to catch the tone ID.  The use of "CQ" on a repeater is not necessary and in some locations, 
strongly discouraged.  

To establish communications with a specific station, using a 2 x 1 call format works best, repeated in 30 
seconds if there's no answer.  That is "W3AMC, W3AMC this is N0KIA on the 94 repeater." is a sufficient 
call on a repeater and can be repeated in 30 seconds if the call goes unanswered.  As in HF work, when a 
call goes out to a specific station, it's considered bad form to jump in and start talking to the calling 
station without first leaving a long break for the intended station to reply.  To use the above example, if 
W3AMC hadn't responded to my second call I would then close by saying "N0KIA clear of 94" if I were going 
elsewhere, or "N0KIA listening on 94" if I were looking to talk to any contact.

How do you key up the repeater?  First, press your mike button, then wait a second before you start speaking.  
The repeater, if idle, takes a few hundred milliseconds to spin up and start transmitting.  If you key and 
start talking immediately, or start talking then key up (a common occurence around here!) your first few 
syllables will be dropped.  Now, once the repeater is active, just wait for the courtesy tone, then key up 
and speak.  Nothing will be dropped.  Every few turn overs, leave a short break (2-3 seconds) after the tone 
to let any breaking station get into the repeater, especially during drive time.  That's when the repeater 
gets it most use and should be made accessable to mobile users.  That doesn't mean DON'T USE THE REPEATER!, 
just be aware that a breaking station may be waiting to get a word in, so, like the PA construction signs 
say, "Givem' a break!".

While some may say that phonetics is unnecessary on FM, I'm of the opinion that when needed, it should be 
used.  For instance, when checking into a new net, or when there is an inexperienced net control, giving your 
call in phonetics gives the receiving operator more time and clues to decode your call.  Also, if you have 
a B, C, D, E, F, M, N or S in your call, you may want to use phonetics when first establishing communications, 
since they are often confused with each other.  Also, if net control calls for a fill on your callsign, be 
nice to him/her and repeat it phonetically.  It may be that they heard you OK, but can't tell if you said "F" 
or "S".  Using a phonetic reply gives them a helping hand.  During net roll call, phonetics aren't necessary, 
since the NCS already has your call, but during open checkins, phonetics may be useful.  Use your own judgment.

Finally, during casual conversations, remember that repeaters have timeout timers on them.  146.94 has a three 
minute timer.  Unlike HF, where you may wax elloquent for a quarter hour or more, repeaters are designed for 
more frequent turnovers.  Now, three minutes is a long time, but if you unkey and hear "Repeater time out cancel", 
then you've managed to exceed a three minute monolog. Try to keep it shorter on the next go 'round. 

That's it for this week's training.  Next week is something special, so stay tuned...

73,
N0KIA